cloud: Update monitor-prometheus-and-grafana-integration.md (#21907)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/monitor-prometheus-and-grafana-integration.md

title: Integrate TiDB Cloud with Prometheus and Grafana
summary: Learn how to monitor your TiDB cluster with the Prometheus and Grafana integration.
---

# Integrate TiDB Cloud with Prometheus and Grafana

TiDB Cloud provides a [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) API endpoint. If you have a Prometheus service, you can monitor key metrics of TiDB Cloud from the endpoint easily.

This document describes how to configure your Prometheus service to read key metrics from the TiDB Cloud endpoint and how to view the metrics using [Grafana](https://grafana.com/).

## Prometheus integration version

> TiDB Cloud has supported the project-level Prometheus integration (Beta) since March 4, 2022(?please help update the date). Starting from October 21, 2025, TiDB Cloud introduces the cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud has supported the project-level Prometheus integration (Beta) since March 15, 2022. Starting from October 21, 2025, TiDB Cloud introduces the cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview).
```

> - **Cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview)**: if no legacy project-level Prometheus integration remains undeleted within your organization by October 21, 2025, TiDB Cloud provides the cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview) for your organization to experience the latest enhancements. This feature is currently available for Dedicated clusters on AWS and GCP, and we are working to bring it to Azure in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview)**: if no legacy project-level Prometheus integration remains undeleted within your organization by October 21, 2025, TiDB Cloud provides the cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview) for your organization to experience the latest enhancements. 

    > **Note**
    >
    > Currently, cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview) is available only for TiDB Cloud Dedicated clusters hosted on AWS and Google Cloud. 

```

Reviewer: Avoid documenting future features or products, even in innocuous ways.
ref: https://developers.google.cn/style/future

- Prometheus and Grafana integrations now are only available for [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated) clusters.

- Prometheus and Grafana integrations are not available when the cluster status is **CREATING**, **RESTORING**, **PAUSED**, or **RESUMING**.

## Steps

### Step 1. Get a scrape_config file for Prometheus

Before configuring your Prometheus service to read metrics of TiDB Cloud, you need to generate a `scrape_config` YAML file in TiDB Cloud first. The `scrape_config` file contains a unique bearer token that allows the Prometheus service to monitor your target clusters.

Depending on your [Prometheus integration version](#prometheus-integration-version), the steps to get the `scrape_config` file for Prometheus and access the integration page are different.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview)">

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/project/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Settings** > **Integrations**.

> 3. On the **Integrations** page, click **Integration to Prometheus(Preview)**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. On the **Integrations** page, click **Integration to Prometheus (Preview)**.
```

### Step 1. Get a scrape_config file for Prometheus

> Before configuring your Prometheus service to read metrics of TiDB Cloud, you need to generate a `scrape_config` YAML file in TiDB Cloud first. The `scrape_config` file contains a unique bearer token that allows the Prometheus service to monitor your target database clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before configuring your Prometheus service to read metrics of TiDB Cloud, you need to generate a `scrape_config` YAML file in TiDB Cloud first. The `scrape_config` file contains a unique bearer token that allows the Prometheus service to monitor your target clusters.
```

After your Prometheus service is reading metrics from TiDB Cloud, you can use Grafana GUI dashboards to visualize the metrics as follows:

1. Depending on your [Prometheus integration version](#prometheus-integration-version), the link to download the Grafana dashboard JSON of TiDB Cloud for Prometheus is different.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview)">

Please download the Grafana dashboard JSON of TiDB Cloud [here](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/tidb-cloud/monitor-prometheus-and-grafana-integration-tidb-cloud-dynamic-tracker.json).

</div>
<div label="Legacy project-level Prometheus integration (Beta)">

Please download the Grafana dashboard JSON of TiDB Cloud [here](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/tidb-cloud/monitor-prometheus-and-grafana-integration-grafana-dashboard-UI.json). 

</div>

> </SimpleTab>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For cluster-level Prometheus integration (Preview), download the Grafana dashboard JSON file [here](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/tidb-cloud/monitor-prometheus-and-grafana-integration-tidb-cloud-dynamic-tracker.json).
    - For legacy project-level Prometheus integration (Beta), download the Grafana dashboard JSON file [here](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/tidb-cloud/monitor-prometheus-and-grafana-integration-grafana-dashboard-UI.json). 
```
